---
layout: fitness
title: Getting Big, part 1
---
It's the first of March and I wanted to officially announce my attempt at "getting big".  I've read a lot of articles on fitness and getting into shape in the past, but I hadn't done a lot about it.  I've got a pretty small frame; I'm 5'6" and I've consistently weighed between 130 and 135 for the past 7 years.  I'm now attempting to change that.

I have a friend who has done the whole getting big thing before and he did it extremely well.  He started off around 140, bulked up to 200+ or so, and is currently about 160+.  I asked him what the best way is to getting bigger.  His answer: "eat.  A lot."  His advice, in more detail, went something like this- basically, if I don't mind cutting fat after bulking up, then eating a lot is the best way to get big.  Compensate eating with whey protein for best results.  And of course, work out a lot (not so much cardio).  Obviously, I'll be gaining a fair share of fat with the muscle (which is what I mean when I say I want to getting big), so I'll definitely have to start cutting later.

h2(header#goal). My goal:

145 lbs, body fat %? by August 1st.

h2(header). Currently:

141 lbs, body fat %?

h2(header#weight). Weight Gameplan:
* End of February - 141 lbs
* End of March - 146 lbs
* End of April - 151 lbs
* End of May - 155 lbs
* End of June - 150 lbs
* End of July - 145 lbs

So far, I'm on target, as I ended last month at 141 lbs.  I've been going to the gym at my apartment consistently for the last month too, and I can already tell I'm a little bigger.

h2(header#workout). Workout Gameplan:

Bulking workout: M/W/F- upper body/back, T/Th- abs/legs, S- cardio.
Cutting workout: M/F- upper body/back, T/Th- abs/legs, M/T/Th/F/S- cardio. 

* Current - Mid-March - bulking, 4 sets.
* Mid-March - Mid-April - bulking, 5 sets.
* Mid-April - Mid-May - bulking, 6 sets.
* Mid-May - beginning of June - bulking, 7 sets.
* June - Mid-June - cutting, cardio = run 2 miles.
* Mid-Jun - beginning of July - cutting, cardio = run 3 miles.
* July - Mid July - cutting, cardio = run 4 miles.
* Mid-July - August - cutting, cardio = run 5 miles.

One thing that I haven't gotten yet is some calipers to actually check my body fat percentage.  Once I have those, I'll update this blog post above.

h2(header#so_far). So Far:

The biggest downside to the whole thing so far is that I feel tired of eating sometimes.  My metabolism has skyrocketed since I've started eating a lot more and working out a lot.  Of course, I still enjoy eating desserts, but I'm trying to stay semi-healthy.  I am a pretty good rut-eater though, so I should be good for eating a lot of the same stuff.  I'll keep you updated on that as well.