---
layout: default
title: goals | david parker - software and web development
---
Below is a list of my goals in my life.  I know that I have way more here than I would actually be able to complete, which I don't think is necessarily a bad thing.  I need something to aim for, if you know what I mean.  Yes, I know this doesn't look super pretty, but I'll be updating that some other time.

h2(header). Goals

Last updated: 12/27/2012

h3(header). Life

* Get Married
** Completed March 24, 2007
* Go skydiving
** Completed May 28, 2011 & August 14, 2011

h3(header). Languages

* Portuguese
* German
* Japanese
* Korean
* Latin

h3(header). Travel

* England
** Completed June 2002, May 2009
* Germany
** Completed July 2002, May 2006
* Rome
** Completed May 2006
* Paris
** Completed June 2002, May 2009
* Scotland
* Egypt
* Australia
* New Zealand
* New York City
* Brazil
* Japan
* Korea

h3(header). Education

h4(header). Master's Degree

* Computer Science
** Scheduled to graduate May 2013
* MBA
** Finished classwork May 2012. Scheduled to graduate May 2013

h4(header). Bachelor's Degree

* -Accounting-
* -Architecture-
* -Computer Science-
* -Finance-
* -Graphic Design-
* -Illustration-
* Information Systems
** Completed May 2006
* -Mathematics-

h3(header). Music

Let's be honest... these probably won't happen anytime soon.

h4(header). Learn Instruments

* Piano (Classical)
* Violin
* Flute (Jazz)
* Guitar (Hispanic and slide guitar)

h4(header). Compose/Write

* Techno

h3(header). Physique

h4(header). Events

* Eco-Challenge
** These competitions are no longer going on :(
* Triathlon
** Iron Man
** Half-Iron Man
*** Schedule August 2013
** Olympic
*** Scheduled July 2013
** Sprint
*** Scheduled June 2013
* Marathon
** Completed May 1, 2011
** Time: 3:59:48
** "Colorado Marathon":http://results.active.com/pages/oneResult.jsp?pID=111511758&rsID=107685
* Half Marathon (13 miles)
** Completed June 26, 2010
** Time: 2:10:36

h4(header). Abilities

* Do the Splits
** Center
** Left side (left leg forward)
** Right side (right leg forward)
* Breakdancing (bboy)
** Currently taking lessons
* Capoiera
* Kung Fu
* Parkour
* Standing backflip

h3(header). Work

* Start and own a SUCCESSFUL tech company

h3(header). Technology

* Submit and get a patch accepted to an Open Source project
* Create a commonly used Open Source project

h3(header). Christianity

* Become a Christian
** Completed January 2003
* Get Baptized
** Completed April 9, 2010
* Go on a mission trip
** In the U.S.
** Overseas
*** Completed May 2012
* Personally lead someone to Christ