---
layout: default
title: goals | david parker - software and web development
---
Below is a list of my goals in my life.  I know that I have way more here than I would actually be able to complete, which I don't think is necessarily a bad thing.  I need something to aim for, if you know what I mean.  Yes, I know this doesn't look super pretty, but I'll be updating that some other time.

h2(header). Goals

Last updated: 03/25/2010

h3(header). Life

* Get Married
** Completed March 24, 2007
* Go skydiving

h3(header). Languages

* Portuguese
* German
* Japanese
* Korean
* Latin

h3(header). Travel

* England
** Completed June 2002, May 2009
* Germany
** Completed July 2002, May 2006
* Rome
** Completed May 2006
* Paris
** Completed June 2002, May 2009
* Scotland
* Egypt
* Australia
* New Zealand
* New York City
* Brazil
* Japan
* Korea

h3(header). Education

h4(header). Master's Degree

* Computer Science
* MBA
** Scheduled to begin August 2010

h4(header). Bachelor's Degree

* Accounting
* Architecture
* Computer Science
* Finance
* Graphic Design
* Illustration
* Information Systems
** Completed May 2006
* Mathematics

h3(header). Music

h4(header). Learn Instruments

* Piano (Classical)
* Violin
* Flute (Jazz)
* Guitar (Hispanic and slide guitar)

h4(header). Compose/Write

* Techno

h3(header). Physique

h4(header). Events

* Eco-Challenge
** These competitions are no longer going on :(
* Iron Man
* Triathlon
* Marathon
* Half Marathon (13 miles)
** Scheduled to do one in June 2010
* 10k
* 5k

h4(header). Abilities

* Do the Splits 
** Center
** Left side (left leg forward)
** Right side (right leg forward)
* Capoiera
* Kung Fu
* Break dancing
* Parkour
* Standing backflip

h3(header). Work

* Have published work in the comic book business (at least one of the following)
** Penciller
** Inker
** Colorist
** Writer
* Own real estate other than my home
** Apartment complex(es)
* Own companies as a major trader in the stock market
* Start and own my own SUCCESSFUL start-up/web-based business(es)

h3(header). Technology

* Submit and get a patch accepted to an open source project (at least one of the following)
** Rails
** Django
** Nodejs
** jQuery
* Create an Open Source project that a lot (how many?) people use

h3(header). Christianity

* Become a Christian
** Completed January 2003
* Get Baptized
** Scheduled for April 9, 2010
* Go on a mission trip
** In the U.S.
** Overseas
* Personally lead someone to Christ