---
layout: post
title: What happened to all the major Ruby bloggers?
categories: posts
---
h1. "{{ page.title }}":{{ page.url }}

I first got into Rails several years back, and via Rails, I got into Ruby.  Ruby has been a blast for me to use, but I'm curious to know what happened to all the Ruby bloggers?  More specifically, when was the last time they actually did something technical in a blog post?

"Ezra Zygmuntowicz?":http://brainspl.at
Last tech updated: April 30, 2009

"Chad Fowler":http://www.chadfowler.com
Last Ruby update: ???

"David Black":http://dablog.rubypal.com
Last Ruby update: January 16, 2009

"David Chelimsky":http://blog.davidchelimsky.net
Last Ruby update: February 2, 2009

"Dr Nic":http://drnicwilliams.com
Last Ruby update: November 15, 2009 (good job Dr Nic!)

"Err the Blog":http://errtheblog.com
Last Ruby update: May 14, 2008

"Evan Phoenix":http://blog.fallingsnow.net
Last tech update: May 23, 2008

"Josh Susser":http://blog.hasmanythrough.com
Last tech update: August 2009, 2009

"David Heinemeier Hansson":http://www.loudthinking.com/
Last Ruby update: May 11, 2009

"Geoffrey Grosenbach":http://nubyonrails.com
Last Ruby update: May 20, 2009

"Obie Fernandez":http://blog.obiefernandez.com/content
Last tech update: ???

"_why":http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Why_the_lucky_stiff
Disappeared

There are a bunch of others, but I think that's enough to get my point across... So what's going on?  I have a few theories..

h3(header). Lots of Work

My first theory is that everybody just has a lot on their plate.  They're constantly doing work, so they don't necessarily want or have time to blog about something technological that they thought was interesting.  Obviously, after a long day at the office, the first thing they can think of is how quickly to avoid getting on the computer... and with good reason.  I can't blame them!

h3(header). "Github":http://github.com

Since Github's inception, it quickly took root as THE central repository for Ruby Open Source projects.  Many of these people may not be blogging about technical stuff, but they're doing plenty of technical work as seen by their commit logs on Github.  Perhaps they think if other people want to see what they're working on (OSS-wise), then people can check out their commits.

h3(header). "Ruby/Rails Inside":http://rubyinside.com

With Ruby Inside "aggregating" all the best Ruby information from across the Internet, it may not seem like the major bloggers need to blog little technical issues anymore... someone else out there will probably blog about it and save them the effort.  Perhaps?

h3(header). Lots of new Entrants/Bloggers

Myself included, there are a lot of new bloggers out there.  It seems to me that perhaps the old hat is just letting the new come in and get their chance at building credibilty, etc.  Or they're just letting us come in and at least blog some stuff so they don't have to.

h3(header). Different Interests/People-Person People

Perhaps the major players are just interested in different things?  Perhaps they're more "People-Person" people and they would rather talk to others in person.  A lot of the blogs above do have recent activity, but the posts are about business, among other things.

h3(header). Life Happens

Or perhaps they've just realized that life happens, and they don't necessarily have time to do everything everyday.  Whatever the reason is, I have to say Thanks for all the blogging that you've done so far, and I can't wait until you do it again!
