---
layout: post
title: Re-acquiring Focus
categories: posts
oldurl: http://davidwparker.com/2009/04/17/re-acquiring-focus/
---
It's been a while since I've had regular technical posts here, and I thought that I'd address my remedy to that really quick.

I recently wanted to become a bit better at JavaScript so I began solving some of the "Project Euler":http://projecteuler.net/index.php?section=problems problems.  Well, that was fine and all, but what I really wanted was to learn the JavaScript language/API.  I didn't necessarily just want to flex my math skills.  Well, that's what I felt like I was doing.  Sure, I didn't get very far and I may go back to it, but until then...

I'm planning on learning Ruby.  Now, I've been doing Rails for nearly 2.5 years now, but I never took the time to formerly *learn* the language.  So, that's where my primary focus will be in the near future.  I just started reading "The Ruby Programming Language":http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/0596516177?ie=UTF8&tag=parkonsoft-20&linkCode=as2&camp=1789&creative=390957&creativeASIN=0596516177 (Amazon) and I'll be solving some of the Project Euler problems in "Ruby":http://github.com/davidwparker/project_euler/tree/5e5e1d76fe84443d1d583cc56c5bacc9fe2e2ed6/ruby as well.

My secondary focus will still be on JavaScript.  I recently installed "CouchDB":http://couchdb.apache.org/ and "CouchApp":http://github.com/jchris/couchapp/tree/master on Ubuntu 9.04 and I'm enjoying playing with "Sofa":http://github.com/jchris/sofa/tree/master.  When I'm not feeling like reading up on Ruby, I'll be working on my own CouchApp.

Most likely, I'll be leaving for a weekend in early May and I'll be gone for 2.5 weeks in May in Europe, but expect regular updates before and after then.
