---
layout: life
title: And then it was March
categories: [life]
---
Well, I promised to have some "Sinatra":http://www.sinatrarb.com/, "XMPP":http://xmpp.org/ ("xmpp4r":http://home.gna.org/xmpp4r/), and "jabber":http://www.jabber.org/ goodness out, but I really haven't worked on that in the last couple of months.  Rather, I've been working a lot with "Django":http://www.djangoproject.com again, but this time more adamant about getting projects done.

As this post is more about my life, I just wanted to say that starting tomorrow, I'm going to be re-organizing this blog.  The main feed will still be about software development and will be served via feedburner.  I'll also be setting a couple of other categories up through which I'll be blogging: Christianity, Entrepreneurship, Fitness, Life, and Money, and perhaps a feed for everything else.  I'd rather not spam my main "tech" blog, and I don't want/need to create a bunch of different blogs to do this.  So that's the plan for tomorrow.

Additionally, I've been doing a good bit figuring out why I've been failing at some of my goals.  I think the number one reason is that I fail to write them down, and even when I do write them down, I fail to put them in a public place where I'll see them regularly.  So that's going to change.

I've tried starting several new habits (such as blogging) and it's *tough*.  So I've adopted Giles Bowkett's form of using a "calendar":http://gilesbowkett.blogspot.com/2010/02/calendar-win-rapid-course-correction.html.  I've only just begun using a calendar in the middle of this week, but I have a feeling that it's going to pay off in the long run.

That said, this is my final non-tech blog post on my tech blog.  Hopefully I'll have something techie to write about soon.
