---
layout: life
title:  "The 2014 Agenda"
categories: [posts, life]
---
tldr; Grow company, bboying, write an ebook, code.

## All the Stuff

Once again, let's take a look at the big stuff, additional stuff I want to get done, and the stuff that needs to change in order to successfully get the things that I want done.

### The Big Stuff

2014 looks like it's going to be a pretty good year, although I don't really have a lot of life goals this year like I did last year. Instead of accomplishing new life goals this year, I'm going to be focusing my efforts on currently being worked on life goals.

#### Uvize

The majority of my time this year that I'll be spending my time on is my tech startup Uvize. Being a co-founder and CTO of a tech startup means I get to do a lot of work. With that being said, I'm a firm believer in work-life balance; I won't be sinking my entire life into the startup.

#### BBoying

BBoying will be taking up a good amount of time this year as well. I started to really expand my abilities near the end of last year, and I believe that the 2nd year of breaking will be a great one.

### Additional Stuff I Want to Get Done

In addition to the big stuff above, there's quite a couple of other things I'm interested in doing.

#### Write an E-book

I'm going to be tackling the task of writing an ebook this year. With my great interest in graphics, I'll be focusing my efforts on doing WebGL. While leading up to the ebook, I'd like to be writing regularl WebGL blog posts, posting at least 2 per month.

#### Reading

Last year I didn't read much at all. This year, I'll be getting back to where I'd like, reading 24 over the course of the year.

#### Game Development | Screecasts

As in the past, I'll be competing in all three [Ludum Dare](www.ludumdare.com/compo) competitions.

Assuming I get to where I need to with the ebook, I'd like to make WebGL screencasts as well.

### The Stuff That Needs to Change

Oi vey, I spent a lot of time on Hacker News, Facebook, and Youtube last year. That has to change this year, or I definitely won't be getting around to writing the ebook for sure.

I said this last year and I'll say it again. Stricter time management is the main thing that needs to change. My goal is to accomplish a number of Pomodoros each day, along with the focus feature with RescueTime Pro.

Additionally, I'll be posting monthly RescueTime updates to keep myself a little more publicly accountable.

### Here goes nothing.

It's a new dawn, it's a new day, it's a new life! And I'm feeling good.